src/triage/component/results_schema/README.md, before:

# results-schema
Store results of modeling runs in a relational database

## Quick Start

1. Install Triage

`pip install git+https://github.com/dssg/triage.git`

2. Create a YAML file with your database credentials (see example_db_config.yaml), or an environment variable 'DBURL' with a connection string. The database must be created already.

3. Call 'upgrade_db' function from Python console or script

```
>>> from triage.component.results_schema import upgrade_db
>>> upgrade_db('my_db_config.yaml')
```

This command will create a 'results' schema and the necessary tables.


## Modifying the schema

[Alembic](http://alembic.zzzcomputing.com/en/latest/tutorial.html) is a schema migrations library written in Python. It allows us to auto-generate migrations to run incremental database schema changes, such as adding or removing a column. This is done by comparing the definition of a schema in code with that of a live database. There are many valid ways to create migrations, which you can read about in [Alembic's documentation](http://alembic.zzzcomputing.com/en/latest/tutorial.html). But here is a common workflow we will use to modify the schema.

1. Have a candidate database for comparison. You can use a toy database for this that you upgrade to the current master, or use your project database if the results schema has not been manually modified.

2. Make the desired modifications to [results_schema.schema](src/triage/component/results_schema/schema.py).

3. From within the results schema directory, autogenerate a migration: `PYTHONPATH='../../../' alembic -c results_schema/alembic.ini -x db_config_file=my_db_config.yaml revision --autogenerate` - This will look at the difference between your schema definition and the database, and generate a new file in results_schema/alembic/versions/.

4. Inspect the file generated in step 3 and make sure that the changes it is suggesting make sense. Make any modifications you want; the autogenerate functionality is just meant as a guideline.

5. Upgrade the database: `PYTHONPATH='../../../' alembic -c alembic.ini -x db_config_file=my_db_config.yaml upgrade head`

6. Update the [factories file](src/tests/results_tests/factories.py) with your changes - see more on factories below if you are unfamiliar with them.

7. If everything looks good, create a pull request!


## Using Factories

When you want to create rows of these results tables for a unit test, you can use the included factories to make this easier and with less boilerplate.  Factories allow you to only specify the attribute that are important to your test, and choose reasonable defaults for all other attributes. results_schema uses [FactoryBoy](http://factoryboy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) to accomplish this.

A simple example is to just instantiate an `EvaluationFactory`. `Evaluations` depend on `Models`, which depend on both `ModelGroups` and `Experiments`. So instantiating an `EvaluationFactory` actually creates four objects in the database.

```
from tests.results_tests.factories import EvaluationFactory, session

init_engine(engine)
EvaluationFactory()
session.commit()

results = engine.execute('select model_id, metric, parameter, value from results.evaluations')
for row in results:
	print(row)
```

```
(1, 'precision@', '100_abs', Decimal('0.76'))
```

This is all well and good, but often your tests will require some more control over the relationships between the objects you create, like creating different evaluations keyed to the same model. You do this by instantiating a `ModelFactory` first and then passing that to each `EvaluationFactory`:

```
init_engine(engine)

model = ModelFactory()
for metric, value in [
	('precision@', 0.4),
	('recall@', 0.3),
]:
	EvaluationFactory(
		model_rel=model,
		metric=metric,
		parameter='100_abs',
		value=value
	)
session.commit()
results = engine.execute('select model_id, metric, parameter, value from results.evaluations')
for row in results:
	print(row)
```

```
(1, 'precision@', '100_abs', Decimal('0.4'))
(1, 'recall@', '100_abs', Decimal('0.3'))
```

Commit message:

Enforce alembic use for experiments, add CLI managements for alembic [Resolves #412]
It's advantageous to force the use of Alembic for schema migrations now. The Experiment here is changed to do so, and to aid management of this we introduce the triage CLI script, which has been talked about before, to which we intend to add more and more things to as the main entrypoint. To make the development of this and general usage of Alembic smoother, there are some fixes to Alembic files (env.py, alembic.ini) that cut down on the labryinthian invocations that Triage needed for Alembic commands before.

Alembic enforcement:
- Replace catwalk ensure_db that uses Base.metadata.create_all with results_schema upgrade_db that uses alembic upgrade head
- Add migration that adds model group stored procedure so alembic upgrade covers it

Usability:
- Add __init__.py scripts to alembic directories so they make it into the installed python package
- Add %(here)s to alembic.ini scripts directory to make it more resilient to being run from different directories
- Modify alembic env.py to add option of more standard config attribute to hold the URL
- Update results_schema README with details about all this

src/triage/component/results_schema/README.md, after:

# results-schema
Store results of modeling runs in a relational database

## Quick Start

1. Install Triage

`pip install git+https://github.com/dssg/triage.git`

2. You can do the initial schema and table creation a couple of different ways, with a couple of different options for passing database credentials.

	- *Triage cli script*. Assuming you have triage installed from pip: `triage upgrade_db -d dbcredentials.yaml`, or just `triage upgrade_db` if you have a database credentials file at `database.yaml` (the default)
	- *From Python code*. If you are in a Python console or notebook, you can call `upgrade_db` with either sqlalchemy engine pointing to your database, or a filename similar to what's used to launch the cli script.

	```
	>>> from triage.component.results_schema import upgrade_db
	>>> upgrade_db(engine)
	>>> upgrade_db('database.yaml')
	```

	- *The alembic command*. Triage uses alembic for schema migrations (more on that below). You can use this command directly, but you just have to tell alembic about the triage environment and config. For simply upgrading the database this is probably the most complicated option to get going, though if you want to use other alembic functionality this is needed. `PYTHONPATH='./src' alembic -c src/triage/component/results_schema/alembic.ini -x db_config_file=database.yaml upgrade head`
	
This command will create a 'results' schema and the necessary tables.


## Modifying the schema

[Alembic](http://alembic.zzzcomputing.com/en/latest/tutorial.html) is a schema migrations library written in Python. It allows us to auto-generate migrations to run incremental database schema changes, such as adding or removing a column. This is done by comparing the definition of a schema in code with that of a live database. There are many valid ways to create migrations, which you can read about in [Alembic's documentation](http://alembic.zzzcomputing.com/en/latest/tutorial.html). But here is a common workflow we will use to modify the schema.

1. Have a candidate database for comparison. You can use a toy database for this that you upgrade to the current master, or use your project database if the results schema has not been manually modified.

2. Make the desired modifications to [results_schema.schema](src/triage/component/results_schema/schema.py).

3. From within the results schema directory, autogenerate a migration: `PYTHONPATH='./src' alembic -c src/triage/component/results_schema/alembic.ini -x db_config_file=database.yaml revision --autogenerate` - This will look at the difference between your schema definition and the database, and generate a new file in results_schema/alembic/versions/.

4. Inspect the file generated in step 3 and make sure that the changes it is suggesting make sense. Make any modifications you want; the autogenerate functionality is just meant as a guideline.

5. Upgrade the database: `PYTHONPATH='./src/' alembic -c src/triage/component/results_schema/alembic.ini -x db_config_file=database.yaml upgrade head`

6. Update the [factories file](src/tests/results_tests/factories.py) with your changes - see more on factories below if you are unfamiliar with them.

7. If everything looks good, create a pull request!


## Using Factories

When you want to create rows of these results tables for a unit test, you can use the included factories to make this easier and with less boilerplate.  Factories allow you to only specify the attribute that are important to your test, and choose reasonable defaults for all other attributes. results_schema uses [FactoryBoy](http://factoryboy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) to accomplish this.

A simple example is to just instantiate an `EvaluationFactory`. `Evaluations` depend on `Models`, which depend on both `ModelGroups` and `Experiments`. So instantiating an `EvaluationFactory` actually creates four objects in the database.

```
from tests.results_tests.factories import EvaluationFactory, session

init_engine(engine)
EvaluationFactory()
session.commit()

results = engine.execute('select model_id, metric, parameter, value from results.evaluations')
for row in results:
	print(row)
```

```
(1, 'precision@', '100_abs', Decimal('0.76'))
```

This is all well and good, but often your tests will require some more control over the relationships between the objects you create, like creating different evaluations keyed to the same model. You do this by instantiating a `ModelFactory` first and then passing that to each `EvaluationFactory`:

```
init_engine(engine)

model = ModelFactory()
for metric, value in [
	('precision@', 0.4),
	('recall@', 0.3),
]:
	EvaluationFactory(
		model_rel=model,
		metric=metric,
		parameter='100_abs',
		value=value
	)
session.commit()
results = engine.execute('select model_id, metric, parameter, value from results.evaluations')
for row in results:
	print(row)
```

```
(1, 'precision@', '100_abs', Decimal('0.4'))
(1, 'recall@', '100_abs', Decimal('0.3'))
```
